---
layout: post
title: Fired
tags: ["fired", "greenfield"]
---

This post is about my second job search.

It's about how I found the job I chose, how shortly it lasted before I
was fired, and something interesting that happens afterwards.

I got my undergraduate degree from RPI in May of 2014 and then I started working
for a software consultancy in downtown Boston - Terrible Labs.
Terrible Labs was a good place to work.
I romanticize my time there.

[One of Terrible Labs' clients, Autodesk, bought Terrible Labs in November of 2014](http://www.terriblelabs.com/).
Afterwards, they had us all work on their construction management software.

I found my next job in the weeks prior to giving Autodesk my two weeks notice on
Friday, August 21st, 2015.
After 10 months, I felt like I wasn't contributing anything to Autodesk and it
wasn't going to change.

# Raiz Labs

Raiz Labs specializes in mobile consulting.
I have experience and love for both, so I decided to interview.

One Tuesday in early July, I snuck out of the office and went to a
local coffee shop for my first phone interview with Anik Das from Raiz Labs.
He asked me what my expectations for salary were and I stupidly volunteered my
entire salary's history.

I told him how much I earned out of University when I joined Terrible and how
big of a bump I got when Autodesk aquired us.

When you're trying to get something done as a team, Terrible had taught me to be
honest and provide lots of context.
Obviously I'm an idiot and that doesn't apply to salary negotiations.
You're supposed to fuck around and haggle.

(As an aside, I think it's really disingenuous of companies not to post salaries
up front.
The only reasons for not being up front are to take advantage of people who
don't know the value of their work and who don't negotiate well.
If the job doesn't entail negotiating then an interviewee shouldn't be
compensated any less for not negotiating well.)

The call gets me invited to a three hour technical interview at the office.
Four developers get 45 minutes each with me to test my technical chops.

The first three go fantastically.
The guys (they're all men) are really nice.
They take turns one-on-one with me in a small room that has a whiteboard, two
chairs, and a desk.

My experience with the fourth guy, Mike, is a train wreck.
He's also head of engineering.
If I take the job, he's my new boss.

This guy leans his chair back, puts his feet up on the desk, folds his hands behind is
head and _closes his stupid fucking eyes_ as hes speaks to me.
He asks me questions like

> Who were you on your previous team? Were you the guy
> who got picked on and people laughed at, or would you say you were more one of
> the people who did the laughing?"

I told him his questions didn't apply to the work environment I am familiar
with.
People aren't picked on and laughed at in the professional setting I knew.
Sure jokes are made, but not with the intent of humiliating a team member.

I already don't like him, but I stay upbeat.
I'm trying to get away from Autodesk.
I'll kiss the new boss's ass.

He asks me to write an algorithm to find all the prime numbers from 0 to 1000.
I hate questions like this.
Questions like "write an algorithm to find a cycle in a linked list" aren't
things you need to know to do my job.
I'm a software engineer, not a computer scientist.
I do the easiest thing to get the job done.
If I need to find a cycle in a linked list I will Google it.

Being honest benefits me this time because I tell him that's how I feel -
politely.
"Is this the kind of problem I'll be solving if I work here?" I asked him.
"Because if so, I should tell you that ordinarily I'd just Google the answer to
that question."

I don't remember what Mike said, but I remember it didn't change my mind about the
uselessness of the question.
I did it anyway; on the spot in about five minutes.
He asked me to make its runtime more efficient.
I did.

Then he told me I still hadn't come up with the most efficient algorithm.
Inside I'm really losing patience.
Of course not.
I asked him for clues.
He won't give any.
This is him waving his big boss dick in my face to let me know there is in fact
someone here smarter than me.

Eventually he shares the optimal solution with me.
He's also nice enough to divulge most people don't even get a working solution
on the board within 45 minutes - that was nice of him.

As we wrap up, Mike asks if I have any questions for him, so I ask some
technical questions I'm concerned with

> How many engineers do we have?
> What's our pull request procedure?
> Do we write tests first or at all?
> Who will I be working most closely with?
> What's a typical project's duration?

A whole bunch of technical stuff.
Then I'm out of questions, so I ask if there's anything else I should know.

Now Mike completely fucks the interview.

> Well, you should know that it's obvious to me that you're trying way too hard
> to get us to like you.

I shut down.
It's yes and no answers for this dick from here on out. After Mike's done
quizing me, I'm supposed to meet the CEO of the company, Greg Raiz for a quick
debrief.
I plan to tell him where I stand, which includes my most recent
unpleasant interaction with Mike.
Mike wraps up instead and tells me the Greg couldn't make it in today.

Two days later, Anik emails me an offer letter from Raiz for 11% less than what
they know I'm currently earning at Autodesk.

I say no.

I don't bring up salary in my response.
I say that while most of my interview went well, something off putting happened,
deterring me from accepting.
I offer to get a coffee or beer with him if he wants feedback about the
interview process.
He does.

We meet, buy a coffee, and then walk around a couple blocks downtown.
I tell him about my experience with Mike and he acknowledges that Mike can
sometimes come across as confrontational but insists that on a day to day basis
he never behaves that way.
Anik apologizes profusely, stating, "I don't blame you. I'd never speak to the
company again if some prick treated me that way."
Anik made me feel pretty good about the whole thing.
He handled it well.

When we split up, he told me that the job offer still stands if I would have
them.
I told him this conversation has helped, but I still can't accept on the spot.
I told him I'd think about it.

Later that day I got an email from 


---

TIMELINE


Tuesday, July 7th, 2015 at 2:00pm: first phone interview with Raiz.

Wednesday, July 22, 2015: Raizlabs emails job offer for 80k
Friday: I decline. Include message?

Friday, August 14, 2015 at 1:45 pm: Coffee with Mike Monroe
@ Barrington Coffee Roasting Company 346 Congress St, Boston

Wednesday, Auguest 19, 2015: Tech interview

Monday, September 14th, 2015: First day @ Greenfield - WeWork 51 Melcher St

Thursday, November 29, 2015: Mike fires me
